Go through the documentation of Component LifeCycle Events. One event is called render, other is component did mount etc.
Avoid touching the DOM as much as possible
Adding comments in return does not work
At other places it does work
Martin Fowler Books on Refactoring and Design Principles
Consider maintainability over raw performance always, until we reach the performance baseline
Code for maintainability, optimize for performance. 
Maintainability cannot be optimized
Design should always be that there is no communication between any child and parent components. 
State and behaviour can be kept apart in JS and React (Functional Language)
Type conversion does not matter in JS (since it is not a strongly typed language) JS is loosely typed
​
For whole application, maintain one container of the state. Call it a store. We have access to the data using a getState call.
Behaviours(simple functions) which are called reducers. Reducers know how to act on a state. They know how to manipulate a state. 
The reducer is given an action which tells the reducer to manipulate the store.

The store has a subscriber which can be used to trigger state changes. The store manages the state
The reducer is given the store.
The store is made aware of the reducers.
The store exhibits a method called dispatch where an actioan is sent as an argument. The store internally calls the reducer. 
like --> reducer(currentState,action) 
If the reducer is successful in performing an action, the new state is returned, else the current state is returned.
This whole thing is the fundamental of Redux.

This is needed because call passing between child/parent can be avoided in React using Redux

Command Pattern: Encapsulate the request or action in an object.  

Data Flow for a good UI:

redux.js.org
Give some data
-> User interacts(Inside a Component) -> Component dispatches an action -> Goes to store -> State is changed -> UI is rerendered (This thing is known as Uni-direction data flow)
A component can be just a function if it is not managing any state on its own

For BugItem, now we can simply cascade action functions from top to bottom
Imp: The store does only reference comparison, it does not check if the current state is modified, so always create a new object while writing reducers.